Tourist Spots in Visayas
Visayas
The Visayas or Visayan Islands and locally known as Kabisay-an gid, is one of the three principal geographical divisions of the Philippines, along with Mindanao and Luzon. It consists of several islands, primarily surrounding the Visayan Sea, although the Visayas are considered the northeast extremity of the entire Sulu Sea. The peoples of the Visaya Islands are known as the Visayans.

The major islands of the Visayas are Panay, Negros, Cebu, Bohol, Leyte, and Samar. The region may also include the islands of Romblon and Masbate, whose population identify as Visayan.


Administratively, the Visayas is divided into 3 regions, namely Western Visayas, Central Visayas and Eastern Visayas. The Visayas is composed of 16 provinces.

Western Visayas (Region VI)
Western Visayas consists of the islands of Panay and the western half of Negros. The regional center is Iloilo City. Its provinces are:

Aklan
Antique
Capiz
Guimaras
Iloilo
Negros Occidental



Boracay Island (The Hearth of Philippine Tourism) is one of the most popular tourist destinations in the country. The island boasts a 4-kilometer stretch of white sand beach, considered to be the best beach in Asia and one of the top ten beaches in the world.

Central Visayas (Region VII)
Central Visayas includes the islands of Cebu and Bohol and the eastern half of Negros. The regional center is Cebu City. Its provinces are:

Bohol
Cebu
Negros Oriental
Siquijor

Bohol
Chocolate Hills are limestone hills that turn brown during the summer. Chocolate Hills are found in the island province of Bohol, which is also the home of one of the smallest primates in the world — the Philippine Tarsier. Bohol's many other natural attractions such as the majestic Iwahig River, Dagohoy Peak and virginal caves in the town of Danao, as well as the beaches of Panglao Island must not be missed

Some of the Wonders of Bohol

FRANCISCO   DAGOHOY CAVE
PANGLAO WHITE BEACH RESORT
PANGLAO'S INAGDANAN CAVE
ONE OF BOHOL DIVING SITE

Eastern Visayas (Region VIII)
Eastern Visayas consists of the islands of Leyte and Samar. The regional center is Tacloban City. Its provinces are:

Biliran
Leyte
Southern Leyte
Eastern Samar
Northern Samar
Samar

Palawan

The province of Palawan is one of the most beautiful islands in the South China Sea. Palawan has natural gas fields on the northeastern part of the island but the beautiful beaches around the island remain pristine. The island is home to the spectacular Tubbataha Reef and the breathtaking Puerto Princesa Subterranean River National Park, both UNESCO World Heritage sites.

How To Get To Palawan,Philippines

The fastest way to reach Palawan is by Plane. There are two daily flights each fielded by Philippine Airlines and Air Philippines from the Manila Domestic Airport to the Puerto Princesa Domestic Airport in Central Palawan. PAL flights will take one directly to the heart of the province where connectoing trips to nearby premier sites can be made. Charter flights via Soriano Air or Pacific will take one to the Island of desire, be this Cuyo,Curon, Busuanga, or El Nido. WG & A Shipping Company plies the Manila-Palawan routes regularly. 


TUBATAHA REEF
ELNIDO PALAWAN
EXPLORE THE SHALLOW  CAVE ON KAYAK
Puerto Princesa Subterranean River National Park also known as Underground River
Puerto Princesa Subterranean River National Park also known as Underground River
Coron, Palawan

Leyte is a province of the Philippines located in the Eastern Visayas region. Its capital is Tacloban City and occupies the northern three-quarters of the Leyte Island. The province of Leyte in the Philippines has historic significance not only to its locals but to the entire nation as well. It is located in the Eastern Visayas region southeast of Manila, the Philippines’ capital city. It occupies the northern section of the island that also bears its name. Its nearby islands include the scenic province of Samar to the east and Cebu, a major tourist destination in the country, to the west.




How to get to Leyte
To reach Southern Leyte, there are several modes of transportation. One can book a flight with Philippine Airlines or Cebu Pacific from Manila to Tacloban and then to Hinunangan on an FX van. Air-conditioned buses from Pasay or Cubao proceeds directly to Hinunangan.

How to get to Leyte by Land
The current road network that crisscross Southern Leyte involves major arteries that connects Leyte via two main outlets – the Maasin-Mahaplag-Baybay on the Western region and the Mahaplag-Sahod on the central region through the Maharlika Highway.

How to get to Leyte by Sea
Trips by Sulpicio Lines going to Tacloban takes about 36 hours. The ship leaves Manila three times a week. The departure day should be arranged one week prior to the trip.

There are about a dozen seaports in Southern Leyte with the Maasin and Liloan ports classified as national ports while ten are municipal ports. From these ten ports, five are now fully functioning – the Maasin, St. Bernard, Sogod, San Juan, and Liloan. From Cebu, the trip will take approximate 6 hours on a regular ship and a couple of hours on Supercat and Waterjet. A ferryboat trip takes 3 hours from Liloan to Surigao.

From Cebu, one can reach Southern Leyte by taking a Fast Boat going to Ormoc and then ride an air-conditioned van going to Hinunangan.

Once you reach town, it is quite noticeable that people are using modified pedicabs as freight haulers. The passenger seat is substituted with a flat piece of metal and a short fence.

Public Transportation in Leyte
There are five appointed bus terminals in Southern Leyte namely Maasin, Silago, Hinunangan, Sogod, and Liloan. These stations are found in open spaces which serve as parking area and thus are not equipped with buildings and other amenities.

Source: Leyteboard

Leyte Tourist Destions

Himokilan Island
Limasawa Island
